# The green

The garden constitutes ~0.5 acres of open space, tucked away at the end of a
residential street. It was previously the home of the Tramways Bowling Club,
who rented the space from Lothian Busses. When the green became available in
2020 we put in a bid to buy the space in the hope of sustainably converting the
old pavilion building on the site as a home and rewilding the green. Out of 18
bids, we were chosen over higher bids by Lothian Buses, on the merit of our
project and due to their desire to protect the space as well.

The garden is intended to provides habitats, produce food for wildlife, and
support all kinds of pollinators as well as facilitate community projects. We
have taken planting direction from the Edinburgh Nature Network, ERBG,
biodiversity and soil experts from The University of Edinburgh, and experienced
local growing groups to design a self-perpetuating, perennial space filled with
native species.

# The philosophy

Outside of its size and location, the green represents a unique opportunity for
growing projects due it being entirely enclosed, with a single and
controlled point of access. Rather than posing a problem to use, this in fact
solves two major issues associated with public growing projects:

- The primary cause of failure is vandalism
- They cannot be accessed by certain vulnerable members of the community

Our aim is to make use of the green as a safe environment for outdoor community
projects and education, with a focus on young families with challenging
homelives in Leith and the surrounding areas who cannot otherwise make use of
traditional outdoor space.

By facilitating forest school and permaculture activities we hope to engender a
wider appreciation of nature for those who struggle to access it, providing
learner inspired, hands-on experience in the natural environment. Beyond the
garden itself we hope to empower community members to take this philosophy home
with them, both figuratively through ideas and practical knowledge as well as
literally by cultivating and sharing seeds and plants. 

# Us

We (Kat and Dom) bought the green in late 2020, having lived in Leith for
almost 10 years. Like many people, we were finding it increasingly difficult to
find an affordable home with enough space for our family and becoming acutely
aware of how essential accessing safe green space is, esecially with small
children and living in tiny urban homes! It was also around this time that we
came across a disused bowling club and green for sale and saw the opportunity
that this could provide for both us and the local community. 

In her "normal" life, Kat is a registered veterinary nurse by profession, soon
to be starting a Phd in the field of animal welfare. Dominic is a biologist by
training, having completed his own Phd studying treatment resistant breast
cancer at the University of Edinburgh. 
